Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance - Robert M. Pirsig

With those tools and a lack of pressure to "get somewhere" it works find and we just about have America all to ourselves. - 6

I see what she is saying, but logically it doesn't go anywhere. You work to live and that's what they are doing. "I was watching swamps," I say.

When you're talking birth control, what blocks it and freezes it out is that it's not a matter of more or fewer babies being argued.
That's just on the surface.
What's underneath is a conflict of faith, of faith in empirical social planning versus faith in the authority of God as revealed by the teachings of the Catholic church.
You can prove the practicality of planned parenthood til you get tired of listening to yourself and it's going to go nowhere because your antagonist isn't buying the assumption that anything socially practical is good per se.
Goodness for him has other sources which he values as much as or more than social practicality. - 11

I noticed he was being superpolite to Sylvia while he pumped away, meaning that he was furious, and she was looking over with a kind of "Ye Gods!" look.
If he had asked any single question I would have been over in a second to diagnose it, but he wouldn't.
It must have been fifteen minutes before he got it started. - 13

But for John's cycle, a BMW R60, I'll bet there's not a mechanic between here and Salt Lake City. - 14

You always suprress momentary anger at something you deeply hate. - 15

I disagree with them about cycle maintenance, but not because I am out of sympathy with their feelings about technology.
I just think that their flight from and hatred of technology is self-defeating.
The Buddha, the Godhead, resdies quite as comfortably in the circuits of a digital computer or the gears of a cycle transmission as he does at the top of a mountain or in the petals of a flower.
To think otherwise is to demean the Buddha... which is to demean oneself. That is what I want to talk about in this Chautaqua. - 17

I argued that physical discomfort is important only when the mood is wrong. Then you fasten on to whatever thing is uncomfortable and call that the cause.
But if the mood is right, then physical discomfort doesn't mean much. - 20

And it occurred to me there is no manual that deals with the real business of motorcycle maintenance, the most important aspect of all.
Caring about what you are doing is considered either unimportant or taken for granted. - 27

I don't want to hurry it. That itself is a poisonous twentieth-century attitude.
When you want to hurry something, that means you no longer care about it and want to get on to other things.
I just want to get at it slowly, but carefully and thoroughly, with the same attitude I remember was present just before I found that sheared pin.
It was that attitude that found it, nothing else.- 27-28

"The laws of science contain no matter and have no energy either and there do not exist except in people's minds.
It's best to be completely scientific about the whole thing and refuse to believe in either ghosts or the laws of science.
That way you're safe.
That doesn't leave you very much to believe in, but that's scientific too." - 32-33

Being facetious is not being a very good father. "Sure," I say, reversing myself, "I believe in ghosts too." - 33

"It's completely natural," I say, "to think of Europeans who believed in ghosts or Indians who believed in ghosts as ignorant.
The scientific point of view has wiped out every other view to a point where they all seem primitive, so that if a person today talks about ghosts or spirits he is considered ignorant or maybe nutty.
It's just all but completely impossible to imagine a world where ghosts can actually exist." - 34

"... The law of gravity and gravity itself did not exist before Issac Newton. No other conclusion makes sense." - 35

"His name, Chris, since it doesn't matter, is Phaedrus. It's not a name you know." - 39

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vBCNlxFTkJk
6:22

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-G51hJThrLE
1:16
5:17

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LGD9i718kBU&list=RDQMh1hCJnYm328&start_radio=1

"That is impractical, but practicality isn't the whole thing with gloves or with anything else." -46

"I suppose you could call that a personality.
Each machine has its own, unique personality which probably could be defined as the intuitive sum total of of everything you know and feel about it.
This personality constantly changes, usually for the worse, but sometimes surprisingly for the better, and it is this personality that is the real object of motorcycle maintenance."

"They depend on technology and condemn it at the same time. I'm sure they know that and that just contributes to their dislike of the whole situation.
They're not presenting a logical thesis, they're just reporting how it is." -48

"This condemnation of technology is ingratitude, that's what it is." -48

"Blind alley, though. If someone's ungrateful and you tell him he's ungrateful, okay, you've called him a name. You haven't solved anything." -48

"I don't want to own these prairies, or photograph them, or change them, or even stop or even keep going. We are just moving down the empty road." -48

"It is common talk that every individual is entitled to economic security. The only animals and birds I know that have economic security are those that have been domesticated
and the economic security they have is controlled by the barbed-wire fence, the butcher's knife, and the desire of others. They are milked skinned, egged, or eaten by up their protectors."

"I guess I forgot to mention John is a musician.." -57